the u.s has called for an immediate end
to the violence between israel and the
palestinians as the conflict enters its
second week israeli airstrikes on gaza
reached a new level of intensity in the
early hours of monday morning as the
military targeted the homes of islamic
jihad and hamas militants at least 200
people have been killed in the past week
including 59 children in the gaza strip
and 10 in israel so what might it take
to end the violence well in a moment
we'll talk to two people on either side
of the conflict who belong to the same
organization which is dedicated to
lasting peace and cooperation but first
take a look at this
video
[Music]
foreign
by
[Music]
okay well one of the people in that clip
is osama aliwat who joins me now from
jericho also joining me from tel aviv is
ayala shalif who works with the sama for
an organization created by former
fighters on both sides called combatants
for peace thank you both for joining us
here on the program ayala i'll begin
with you just help our audience
understand very briefly what your
organization aims to do
i think
first of all it aims to
put an end to the occupation
and we do it in different ways
but you you bring uh sort of people who
were combatants
together
to try and
get them to work on reconciliation and
cooperation just just help our audience
understand that
okay the movement was
built by
combatants who put down their weapons
and they understood
that violence is not a way
to move forward in any way
and they today
the movement is is bigger and
we work together
in
any way possible
to
forward this message
uh summer i'll i'll bring you into this
uh because we saw you in that clip there
you yourself uh were a palestinian
police officer you say that you've known
nothing but this conflict and you
started to really think about your place
in it from the age of about 14. how
difficult was it then to look at the
other side see the conflict uh you know
unfolding and and be able to say no i
want peace
it was
hi thank you first of all for having us
for paying attention to us and our work
this is a big support for us
for me at the beginning
this conflict was
something like i was built in i didn't
think who's right and who's wrong all
what i knew about the conflict that
there are some armed soldiers and these
armed soldiers are against us they come
to our schools they come to our houses
they demolish our houses and that's all
what i knew about israel israel
succeeded to show me how strong and
powerful
and how much they can hurt me but they
never tried to show me that there is
another voice inside israel there is
another people who don't agree with
what's going on and the minute i saw
this in 2010 after a long time of being
involved in
this circle of violence i understood
that there is another way
and there is different
face for this coin that israel is trying
to show us and there's partners on the
other side and together we can make it
better because keep ignoring the story
of each other keep ignoring the
narrative of each other will not take us
to anywhere and we have to find a way to
share this small place and not to divide
it into small gate to zero and there and
as long as
jewish people and palestinian people are
not free no one will be free as long as
i am not free the israelis also would
not be free so that's why we are
fighting together for the freedom for
both sides
i'm just gonna i'm just gonna bring in
uh ayala because that that is quite a a
strong point isn't it that no matter
what happens neither side is free till
both sides can live in peace
exactly
it is
it's like uh i i
the picture i always have in my head is
like a prisoner and a guard
both tied
so one side is has has a benefit but
they're both tied and nobody's free and
that's our situation here and
there's no way
of solving it through violence
only if you work together something that
osama also said is just being raised
believing that the other side is the
enemy how do you change that mindset how
do you help re-educate families and
people to
stop telling their children i i suppose
that the other side is the enemy
it's more than parents telling
children it's the whole system and you
said the word it's education
it someone needs to be in the head of
the pyramid that wants
to make a change and wants to work
together and then
the educational system has to change and
that that's what brought it and that's
what can stop it
uh education osama do you find when you
are speaking to other palestinians when
when they see the level of violence and
destruction in a place like gaza that
they are unwilling to to join the
movement the organization
actually people are afraid to join this
kind of organizations because as i
mentioned before israel is still
controlling the land either we accept it
or not even when we have palestinian
authority israel can enter to any city
and arrest anyone so people are afraid
of putting them in this themselves in
this risk and join the other side the
other thing is people are disappointed
actually because since the palestinian
authority signed the peace agreement
with israel israel is taking land beast
by peace and we will give up this whole
thing
but we are changing lives of people as
much as we can and through this change
we are doing education for example when
we go to harvest all of the trees for
the palestinians to protect them from
settlers we take palestinian children
and israeli children to meet when they
are young and to me to see each other as
a human being and not as enemy before
they go to exactly
is that helping
it helps a lot and i am as a
responsible of the education
department and combat transfer bees i
give lectures to palestinian students
israeli students teaching them about
peace resistance teaching them about
life under occupation teaching them
about the both the right of the what
people to live in this land and teaching
them about
how being playing the victim all the
time will not help anyone and we should
stop playing this game of who's more
victim than the other and start being
united together in order to save the
future of our kids
yeah
anywhere from this place indeed i'm just
going to bring in uh ayala and ayala we
don't have much time left but i just
wanted to ask i mean how do you feel the
entire system can now change how do you
think there can be some kind of lasting
peace and what your organization does
can be translated into something more
my hope is that the the current say
prime minister will
be
will change and it will bring a change
because it needs to be systematic it
helps what we do helps in in uh
where we work but for the whole system
to change
we need to
influence the whole system and if
the prime minister will change if
netanyahu will not succeed
to make a government
there's a chance
that the system might change especially
after all this violence that's erupted
here now it's like
i'm sorry but everybody everybody
has to see that there's no no
it goes nowhere it goes nowhere it's
just going to be happening again next
year or in two years
a solution
is needed
in a deep way not not just stopping
ceasefire now indeed ceasefire now but
then go on and and something more lost
yeah uh ayala shaliv and osama elewhat
thank you both for joining us here on
the program thank you